
Skip to Content
Dice & Paint
Blog
BattleTech: A Game of Armored Combat
Review (40th Anniversary Edition)

First introduced in 2019, A Game of Armored Combat ushered in a new wave of BattleTech. Catalyst Game Labs worked with Lira International in China to produce a new line of plastic mech miniatures. While not the first plastic mechs, these minis and the poses done by the sculptors represented a new level of quality for BattleTech minis. This combined with a number of other factors from successful video games to very successful Kickstarters have launched a modern renaissance for the brand.

In 2024 BattleTech reached it’s 40th anniversary and a new edition of this starter set was produced. Keeping the same name with new cover art and “40th Anniversary” branding added, there were few changes to the product itself with most contents remaining the same.

This review aims to break down this boxed set and point out what it does well, and areas where Catalyst should aim to improve in their next starter set. This review isn’t really intended for a brand new player, but more an analysis of the box. If you’re interested in learning more about Battletech in general I’ll point you to this Goonhammer article, and for a more general “should you buy it” review of the boxed set this one from Gaming Trend is good.
The Mechs

The boxed set includes 8 mechs ranging from the 20 ton Locust to the 85 ton Battlemaster. And I think they’ve picked a pretty great lineup here. All 8 mechs are classic designs used from the Star League to the ilClan era. If there is one mech I’d change it’s the Commando. The Commando is very much a Lyran alliance mech and didn’t see wide use outside of it. Making this a Wasp or Stinger would make this pack much more useful for any Inner Sphere force. There are also mechs in the box I’d like to see re-released in other products, but I’ve talked about that elsewhere.

The models themselves look good. A problem with many earlier BattleTech minis (plastic or metal) is a tendency for extremely static poses. Legs straight, arms at the side, it just doesn’t look good. And the sculptors working on these models realized that and gave us pretty dynamic poses. This wasn’t at the cost of verisimilitude, these still look like big, heavy war machines striding across a battlefield.

One weakness of Catalyst’s current line of plastics is mold lines. Showing up on mechs the soft plastic used in them makes these much harder to remove than on something like a Games Workshop kit. $$$
The Lore and Fiction

BattleTech is a property heavily driven by a deep and extensive backstory. 
The Rules

I’m not going too deep on the rules themselves. This is Classic BattleTech much as it has existed for the past 40 years. I’m not a big fan of the system, but I don’t really have much to say about it in the context of this box. What I do want to talk about is the way things are presented.

$$ Core Rules $$

The record sheet packet isn’t very good. The first issue is they’re just paper. As a kid I’d use a pencil and eraser to re-use my record sheets but no one wants to do that in 2025. Having these laminated so you could use dry erase markers would be a big step up. Also, binding them together doesn’t make sense. If two players are playing with this box do you pass the record sheet book back and forth between you?

Next up the rules reference cards. These are printed on nice cardstock and should hold up pretty well. However, I think they would have done well to print these with a few offset colors, the entire page being black and white tables makes it very similar looking and can make your eyes glaze over.

Lastly, let’s talk about the ilClan Era Rules Insert. I think the title of the document points to some of the problems with it. This is just a really awkward, clunky thing to include in the box. $$
So, What’s Missing?

So the next issue I have with this box is the dice. Or lack thereof. It comes with 2d6, which is fine, that’s the minimum to play Battletech. One thing I’d have loved is if Catalyst included custom d6, make them different in each box set, encourages people to collect them all, and having pairs of Battletech dice can be useful, and is in fact something Catalyst sell separately. At the scale they do these boxed sets 2 custom d6 wouldn’t be a big change in their bottom line, and would make what you get feel more special and interesting.

Now, here’s the other thing. You really don’t want to play Battletech with only 2d6 and no access to any tokens or anything. In Battletech you need to track how each mech moved (walk, run, jump) as well as how far. Back in the 90s when I played Battletech we just tried to remember. But with decades of game design experience I think we as a society have realized that having something to track that kind of thing is great.

There are a few options here. Pictured are third party dice that track your mech’s movement modifiers. Most other tabletop games go with tokens for this kind of thing. I don’t have a strong preference, but this boxed set should come with something. Cutting out the weird, duplicate mech standees for some basic tokens would be a big step forward in making this a flexible, usable boxed set.
Other Bits and Their Problems

Nearing the end of this review it’s time to get a bit more negative. Pictured are the dice and cardboard cutouts the game comes with. First I’ll touch on the hexes, I love these, they’re double-sided with one side matching each side of the box’s game mat and they allow you to change up the terrain while using that map.

However the mech standees I can’t praise. I’ve read numerous other reviews that do, but I think as an inclusion they don’t make a lot of sense. The first issue with them is they match the mechs in the box. These standees could have been a nice chance to try out something else, here it’s only to double up on mechs. I’ve seen it mentioned you could use these as proxies, but the same applies to the 3d miniatures. And that leads into the next point, you don’t need 16 mechs to play BattleTech. Playing a full 4v4 match with this box will take quite some time and I can’t recommend anyone play a 8 vs 8 game of Classic BattleTech unless you’ve got the whole day free.

So maybe these make more sense for Alpha Strike? But there you have problems too. Alpha Strike rules are not in this box, and you only have one card of each mech design (and only one record sheet for that matter). So at the end of the day I’m left asking, why did they waste the cardboard on these? I’d be happy to see more terrain, or even better they could solve the next problem.
Conclusions and Verdict

It should be clear to anyone reading this that I’m of mixed feelings on this boxed set. It does a lot of stuff very well, it’s a good price, it comes with a good selection of mechs, and the mech models are pretty good. Likewise I appreciate that Catalyst always includes some fiction in these sets. $$

But for the fact that Catalyst has now released this boxed set three times, and there have been many sets before it really raises some questions on the usability of the product. The record sheets being plain paper is understandable for cost reasons, them being bound into a single book is not. Did anyone at Catalyst try opening up this box and playing a 4v4 game? It seems like the kind of problem you’d identify immediately if you did.

And I need to go back to the decision to include cardboard standee mechs. I have fond memories of a boxed set that was only mech standees, and these are much higher quality than that decades old product. But I just don’t see what possible use these have when combined with the rest of the box’s contents. Likewise, the time for including cardboard tokens was 5 years ago, but if not then, now.

I hope that Catalyst takes a fresh look at this boxed set next time they update it. I think with a few tweaks it’d be an amazing introduction I could wholeheartedly recommend, but as it stands I think it’s better for veterans than brand new players.
Dice and Paint

diceandpaint@gmail.com
