
Blood Angels Kitbashing
Jun 16

With Horus Heresy 3rd Edition right around the corner I’ve been really excited for the game and decided to start on the Blood Angels army I’ve been thinking about for years. 4-5 years ago I started painting up some 40k Blood Angels but don’t really have any interest in the system right now, so 30k it is.

I’ve never been a big kitbasher and have often wished I was more comfortable in that area. I’m using the Blood Angels as a chance to really stretch my wings (foreshadowing) on this. And it’s been a lot of fun.
Bits Sourcing

I’m using a ton of stuff here. As a short list of key things: 40k Blood Angel kits (out of production Sanguinary Guard, Death Company are key; Assault Terminators are a great kit still in production); 30k Blood Angels upgrades; Greytide Studio Crimson Lords; Kromlech; Liber Daemonica. All of these combine to give me a great selection. Add in various 30k models and kits and we’ve got awesome options.

One thing I also needed to source are wings. I want my Blood Angels to be dramatic and over the top and nothing is better for that than adding wings to jump pack models. And the real gem here is the Stormcast range. I used: Prosecutors, Aetherwings, Yndrasta, and Tornus the Redeemed. Beyond that I also grabbed a box of Dark Eldar Scourges. 

I also keep my eye out for 40k models that will work in 30k, more on a couple of those below.


Consularis as Far as the Eye Can See

For 30k you really don’t need that many HQ models, there is a lot of WYSIWYG wiggle room, but I think that characters are really fun in this game. Centurian HQ choices have a long menu of options to make them Consuls - specialized leaders. This is pretty unique among GW games and while they’ve come out with models for many of these there is a huge space to play around with here. Their specialized loadouts make for easy and fun kitbashing opportunities. I’m doing this before the full rules for 3E are known, so a lot of the characters I’m building may end up underwhelming, and I’m okay with that. I mostly want to focus on having a lot of options that are fluffy, fun, and look cool.

When building these consuls there are a few decisions to make. First you have to pick the consul type, are you building a Librarian or a Herald? But also you need to decide if this model will be in power armor, several marks of terminator armor, or have a jump pack or some type of bike. Jump Packs are core to the Blood Angel identity so I wanted to get a good number of character options there. I also love terminators so we needed some there. And lastly for Zone Mortalis jump pack troops are not recommended so some in power armor on foot make sense too.

I then further divided my needs into consuls I wanted flexibility with versus ones that would be a nice one-off. Chaplains were first on my list for wanting flexible options. They’re great in 2nd edition and are very iconic for the Blood Angels so I wanted a selection settling on one with a jump pack, one on foot, and Tartaros and Cataphractii terminator options. On the other hand Vigilators are cool but can’t be taken as terminators and I don’t see a need for one with a jump pack. So just one in power armor will do.

After a little planning, wishlisting, and consideration of models I ended up with a list of 19 centurions to build.
six space marine models

For these first six we’ll go left to right.

Dominion Zephon - No major changes here, I did a head swap with a resin MK VI Blood Angels head and removed his tactical rock.

Praetor with Sword and Volkite - this model from the Age of Darkness box also had minimal changes. I did a head swap, I think it’s a Sanguinary Guard head, He also had a tilting plate added from the assault terminators box. Lastly his backpack was swapped but I forget which kit it came from. I also trimmed off the rope that hangs below his belly plate and didn’t add the second sword to the model’s belt as it’s very busy.

Chaplain - This is the Chaplain from an earlier 30k boxed set, and one I got second hand and primed. Here I swapped the Crozius for a 3d printed bit from Greytide’s Eternal Pilgrims line. His gun was swapped to an Inferno Pistol, and his backpack replaced, again I forget the source.

Chaplain with Jump Pack - This is a 40k plastic model with a few changes. Hard to see in the photo but the right knee has a Death Company X, that isn’t part of the Blood Angels iconography during the Heresy so I filled it in with putty and smoothed it out. Next I wanted to try something I’d seen on YouTube which is replacing a knee pad with a skull from the Citadel Skulls kit. This was easy, I shaved off the front of the knee pad and back of the skull and connected with sprue goo. This is an easy conversion which looks good and I have plans to do more. Lastly I replaced the head with an out of production Mk. IV upgrade head from Forgeworld.

Moritat - Not sure which one is next so let’s go with the guy in front. Here is the first model where I did a torso swap. I assembled a Mk. VI plastic marine and after the cement had dried used clippers to cut it at the waste. The torso was then replaced with a Death Company torso. These are a little smaller but I think it looks fine, some putty and sprue goo made sure the connection point is solid and looks fine. He was then given two Inferno Pistols, the chaplin’s purple backpack, and a head from the plastic Blood Angels upgrade sprue.

Herald in Tartaros Armor - last but not least is my first Hearld. Here a plastic Tartaros body has been given a thunder hammer from the Assault Terminators box and the standard from the same box. The standard had a few purity seals which I shaved off with a knife and then smoothed with a rotary tool and plastic cement. This didn’t turn out perfectly as it’s a very hard surface to work on with the folds of the cloth. The body then got a back icon from the plastic upgrade sprue. I also had a string of rope and icons that went across the chest, I don’t recall the source. 