Written and illustrated by [Susanah Grace](https://itch.io/profile/susanahgrace)
Based on [The Wretched](https://loottheroom.itch.io/wretched) system by [Chris Bissette](https://loottheroom.itch.io/)

Sold via [itch.io](https://susanahgrace.itch.io/chvlr) $10
Print edition via [Black Cats Gaming](https://blackcatsgamingshop.com/products/chvlr-print) $14.90

INTRODUCTION
------------

CHVLR is a solo RPG using the Retched and Alone ruleset to tell stories of child soldiers who had to get in the robot. It opens making clear it's inspiration, the second page is an illustration of an empty folding chair calling back to the end of the Evangelion TV series. The game lists that series, Mobile Suit Gundam and Rahxephon as inspirations.

And it pulls it off, off the bat I'll say this is a good game that captures it's theme well. I've played two campaigns, and enjoyed both. This review is based on the PDF, I wanted to order a physical copy but the 16 page booklet costs over $17 in shipping which I can't bring myself to pay. The PDF itself is gorgeous, the graphic design and art for the game are both excellent. There are three full color illustrations which are very good and set the tone very well.

This review will mostly reflect on the games I played using the system, these are not intended to be reviews of the story my pilots told.

THE GAMEPLAY
------------

The game is based around missions, for each mission you draw d6 playing cards from a deck and prompts in the book tell you what each means. This becomes a journaling exercise as you connect the different events together.

Right off the bat the system runs into a little trouble. You're instructed to process all your playing cards before writing down what happens. This means you have up to six writing prompts you need to synthesize into one mission log. Personally, I can't keep that all straight in my head. You could take notes that are then combined into a journal entry but that isn't how I want to play this type of game. I think the game works best when you have around three prompts to connect.

What I ended up doing was sort of live-blogging the cards as I revealed them. I'd write what I thought about the first card then move to the next. This resulted in something a little less cohesive but I was very pleasantly surprised at how frequently one event clearly lead to a later one.

I don't want to copy and prompts here as I think discovering them while playing is much of the charm of the game but you can probably guess where most go. Friends die, you face an enemy entirely defined by the player, you feel sad and alone. I think most of the prompts are well done and give you enough to go one without being too prescriptive.

The other mechanic I've not talked about yet is the Jenga tower. Many prompts in the game instruct you to pull a block from a Jenga tower, and should it collapse your story has ended. I love this conceptually and I'm sure it's great fun, but it's deeply impractical. First you need a Jenga tower not something I really want to buy or store. And more importantly it really limits where you can play. Want to play in bed? You've got a get up to pull bricks. My first game was played while I was travelling and obviously there is no way to do that with a Jenga tower. The PDF links to a good resource on some alternatives and I went with the 100d6 method. The first time you are to pull from the tower roll 100d6, then discard any 1s. The next time you roll use the remaining dice. I did this digitally for obvious reasons but would be fun physically if you've got the dice for it.

The final mechanic to mention is that some cards change the rules of the game allowing for alternative end states. I think this is a good thing though ends up fairly unlikely on the whole to matter, more on this below.

MY FIRST GAME - EVA ON THE POTOMAC
----------------------------------

For my first game I wanted to go with something I knew and did very much a game hewing close to Eva and my childhood. I wasn't the main character, but it was close. I played this game while travelling, both on the train and at a friend's house, and with digital tools this worked pretty well. I had a journal and pen but used my tablet for the rulebook and rolled dice/pulled cards digitally.

But I made two big rules mistakes. They're linked, and the issue is two-fold. First I didn't discard cards that had been pulled, I kept drawing new cards from a deck and only kept track of the few it notes you should keep track of. However most cards, rather than discarding and not using cards that had been pulled previously, they went back into the (virtual) deck and some cards I saw quite a few times. And then the second mistake I think had a bigger impact. When looking at my PDF I knew how many pages it was, but I didn't handle the prompts correctly. The first page of the prompts section tells you what each suit deals with. I read and processed that, and proceeded to look up what each card did on the next pages. You can see what the pages look like below, and I think my mistake is pretty easy to make on a PDF reader.

Here was my mistake, on the second image where it lists the cards you're only looking at the cards for the Hearts suit. There is a background image indicating this, but on a PDF reader it's hard to see that the page on the right is referring to hearts. This was certainly my mistake, scrolling a couple of pages would have resolved this problem as I saw the next set of prompts for 10, 9, etc. But simply changing the prompt pages to say 10🖤 rather than 10 would resolve this issue, and frankly make it a little easier to use overall. My next game playing with a printed book I realized that having the suit in this low-saturation background image is not immediately clear when you're flipping pages.

So, because of that mistake I ended up repeating a lot of cards, and I would take the card's number and compare it to the suit list, some of these confused me a little, but mostly it worked. And very much to the game's credit, playing the rules catastrophically wrong was still a lot of fun and the game still worked and I'm happy with the result.

This was my first solo/journaling RPG and I pretty quickly warmed up to the format. There were several themes or plot points I introduced intentionally, and was pleased to see them come back into play repeatedly through future prompts.

I do have a complaint about the system. You roll a d6 to determine how many prompts you'll have per mission, that will be distilled into your journal entry. And I rolled a 6 more than once, and having 6 different prompts to fit into one journal entry caused a number of issues. First, it's just a lot of stuff. Having six things to fit into a journal entry is a lot, both in terms of word count and themes and plot points to tie together. The other larger issue to me is that you're supposed to see the 6 cards, one at a time, then write based on them. And keeping all that in my head is a lot. On this playthrough I ended up just taking the points one-by-one and writing them as I drew them. And that worked surprisingly well. I think having all 6 revealed and working through them would result in a better story, but I almost feel like I'd need to take notes on that before journaling which is not something I'd want to do. For my second game I decided to stick with the d6 but very early in my playthrough I suspected that this system would work better with fewer concurrent prompts.

Back to the game I played, I really liked how well the prompts worked. Setting my first game in a familiar location and based on a property I'm very familiar with helped a lot. Having these touchstones made it very easy to handle some of the prompts that came up, and the real world location added some weight to things that came up. I ended up playing the game over 3 or 4 sittings over a weekend and really enjoyed my time with it.

Using the alternative 100d6 method for the Jenga tower also worked well, in addition to not needing the tower, you can play anywhere when rolling the dice digitally. And a part of my brain very much liked making note of the number of d6 left after each event, a little countdown ticking as I played.

Thanks to that countdown, the prompts, and the themes I was following I ended with a very satisfying narrative conclusion to my play. As you're writing journal entries you won't narrative the moment of your pilot's death, ditto for their final battle. But thanks to the prompt and ticking timebombs of the game's mechanics it was very clear that things were coming to an end with the situation and my pilot both hopeless by the final entry.

The final instructions are to mark your pilot KIA and to redact most of your journal. And I loved this, it gives you a chance to go back through your story, but it adds a sense of finality that is often lacking in media. You can always rewatch something or reread a favorite book or replay a favorite game. But here you get once chance to read what you've written and then most of it is consigned to the black marker of redaction. And even this lends opportunities for world building, what do these censors care about? While going through my journal I created somewhat idiosyncratic rules for what would be redacted, and then I went back to the earlier bits to black out some more as my internal censorship rules had evolved. These is something deeply satisfying about sharing this next photograph, you can see I played and that **REDACTED** piloted a CHVLR. But you don't know their story, that's just for me.

GAME 2: 00
----------

I quite enjoyed my first game and wanted to play again, but after reading the rules and playing the game I have some pretty big concerns with running it as a Gundam inspired game, rather than Evangelion. Wanting to explore the system (and use the correct rules) I wanted to see how it would work. My true loves with Gundam are the Universal Century timeline spanning 45 years of media, and the Gundam SEED franchise. But I don't think this game fits them. The enemies are too similar to the protagonists, and for all the tragedies and catastrophes that pervade them, the core message of both really is hope. You can save the world and make it a better place.

So looking for other Gundam influences I was drawn to Thunderbolt, Wing, Iron Blooded Orphans, and Gundam 00. I think all have things to add to a CHVLR playthrough, but 00 is what I settled one. I've not watched 00 in a very long time, but I have reasonably fond memories of it and I think it offers a few things well suited to this game. First, the protagonists belong to an organization called Celestial Being, this is a mysterious terrorist organization, and it's based in space. I think both of these offer good contrasts to the "base" setting of CHVLR, having CHVLR not be a quasi-governmental organization but be actively opposed to the world's governments is a nice change. Additionally having my pilot and CHVLR based on a space ship seemed like an interesting change. Rather than sortieing from a fixed location they would be deployed wherever they were needed in the world. Lastly, I like that in Gundam 00, at least at the start the Gundam pilots are operating as distinct cells. CHVLR incorporates other pilots into its prompts, and in my first playthrough I'd treated them like the other pilots in Eva, people who show up, and join the base. But here I wanted to create other pilots who are at more of a distance, literally and figuratively.

ROOM FOR IMPROVMNT
------------------

Above I talked about the struggle to incorporate six prompts into a single mission log, I'm not sure the best way to simplify this but I think as written it would make the game quite difficult to play without taking mid-mission notes.

Another area where I think the game struggles is getting you started, the instructions for starting the game are clear but require a decent bit of background to get going. Deciding who you are, where you are, what you're fighting, you need to answer all of these to some degree and unlike the prompts for playing cards you're mostly on your own here.

After my first play I had a much stronger idea of what the game is and what I want to do with it, but that first one has some onboarding struggles.

I also take exception to the game's one "win" condition, introduced by an ace this allows your missions to build towards success. The problem is that the math makes this pointless. You roll once per mission and on a 6 (or 5+ with upgrade) you check a point off, get 10 points and you can retire, alive. But this means that you need on average 60 missions, after you've drawn this card. Based on the Jenga tower or d100 you're never getting that far when each mission averages just under 2 blocks removed or dice rolls. If you get both the relevant aces on your first mission you're still looking at almost 60 block pulls from a Jenga tower and a very long game. And this all relies on drawing one card, if it's past maybe the halfway point in your deck it becomes impossible to win.

And the issue isn't that the game is hard to win, it's that this mechanic is included at all. Don't waste rules text or player headspace on the 1 in 1000 chance they survive this game about doom and gloom. It just isn't going to come up.

THEMATIC QUIBBLES
-----------------

One other small issue I have is that while most prompts are pretty wide open some require things to be true of your setting that are not made clear up front. One card references a space colony, something that doesn't exist in my Evangelion inspired setting. Another mentions a skyscraper. These specific touchpoints will likely exist in many playthroughs, or be easily to mentally incorporate, but they're more concrete than I'd like.

I do have a bigger compliant. I think the game works very well for Evangelion. There can be a happy ending in Eva but it's a one in a million shot that takes 40 years and many retellings. But I don't think this works as a Gundam game. Gundam is a fundamentally hopeful universe, it has child soldiers and war is ever present, but everyone is striving for a better world and the good guys typically win. I don't see how to square this with CHVLR or the Wretched rules. Likewise, I think that much of the game could fit Macross but again, it needs the light at the end of the tunnel, hopeful outlook for it to work.

Changing that would be hard, and I think the game does work best as a story of doom. You could fit this into more hopeful universes by zooming in and telling a smaller story. This system is not a good fit for Mobile Suit Gundam. But it would work well for Gundam Thunderbolt, or Wing, or 00, or Iron Blooded Orphans. It's just to me those are not the core Gundam experience and even there they tend to have much happier endings than CHVLR.

I think some of this also ties back to the lack of guidance at the start. I think someone could pick up this book and very much channel Amuro Ray, and it would work well, until you realize that Amuro is doomed to die. Possibly some flexibility on the win/lose states of the game would have helped here. But the book needed to say a little more at the start, and realize that some of its inspirations fit better than others.

APPENDIX A: RECOMMENDED MEDIA
-----------------------------

-   Neon Genesis Evangelion - 1995, TV \- Arguably the most influential anime of all time, and certainly in the top 10 Eva is a towering presence in weebery. And it's pretty great. There is a reason it has such an outsize impact in fandom for being a one-season TV show from 30 years ago. The characters are great, the episodes are punchy and have great pacing. And the end, well, it's interesting. The finale of the TV show is divisive at best and undeniably rushed and overbudget. I think that makes it very interesting as a work of art, less good as entertainment. Eva is the core touchpoint for this game from the mechs to the CHVLR organization standing in for SEELE.

-   Neon Genesis Evangelion Rebuild Project - 2007, Film \- The republic Eva movies are fantastic and I think are fine with no other context. However they are really best in the context of the TV show. Watching the final film, *3.0+1.0 Thrice Upon a Time* was the single best media experience of my life, but that was in the context of having watched the TV show over 20 years ago and bought lots of random Eva merch over the years.

-   Beautiful Fighting Girl - 2000, book \- Written by Tamaki Saitō this is an attempt to explain the prevalence of Beautiful Fighting Girl in Japanese media. Rei Ayanami is on the cover for a reason and this book offers a lot to think on for the role of these young, violent women in anime and broader otaku culture.

-   Mobile Suit Gundam: The Origin - 2001, Manga - The original Gundam TV show is a hard sell. It was made on a shoestring budget, huge time pressure, and was canceled before it could come to its planned conclusion. The movie version is surprisingly good, they did a nice job with the edit, but it doesn't solve the visual issues. However the best telling of the grand daddy of the daddy issue mech is the manga written by the director of the original TV show, Yoshikazu Yasuhiko. As I said above, this is going to be hard to make a 1:1 setting for CHVLR as the themes of Gundam don't entirely align with CHVLR, but it will work pretty well for an introduction to the core Gundam timeline and it is still very much about child soldiers in mechs.

-   Mobile Suit Gundam: 00 - 2007, TV \- This was the basis for my second playthrough of CHVLR and I think the themes fit the game pretty well. The protagonists are Gundam pilots belonging to Celestial Being, a terrorist organization operating from orbit. This is very much a retelling of the story from Gundam Wing but I think is significantly more watchable, sorry to my Toonami stans. The best connection here is that you can recast CHLVR from emulating Eva's SEELE to an outsider/terrorist role a la Celestial Being.

-   Mobile Suit Gundam: Iron Blooded Orphans - 2015, TV - IBO is one of the more recent Gundam shows and I think it fits the themes of CHVLR well. The cast are teens from a laborer class on Mars, forgotten by earth, given implants to operate their industrial mecha. The show lasted for 50 episodes and it's fair to say the quality of them was uneven. But on the whole I enjoyed the show and it has some great mech designs. The thematic connections to CHVLR start to fall down the same place as many Gundam shows, with the ending, but in this case you have quite an... unusual ending to enjoy.

-   Mobile Suit Gundam: Thunderbolt, 2015, OVA - Gundam but make it Jazz and depressing. Thunderbolt was originally a manga, and has an animated sequel, but really you want to watch the 8 episode anime adaptation, they're short episode sand you'll blast through it. Thunderbolt fits most of the themes of CHVLR very well, it's a grim story about a pointless battle in the larger war. A big thematic departure from most Gundam properties is that it is very much about adults. I'm not sure if ages are given for the core characters, but they're adults with a history, not teens forced to pilot mobile suits by circumstance. But I don't think that is a problem for mining for ideas for CHVLR.

-   YouTube Grab-bag \- there are a lot of good videos on the themes of mecha child soldiers and I can in now way comprehensively list them here. But I have a few highlights. Let's start with some core Eva media - [Shave Impact](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xli293P8fug). Evangelion as a story is inseparable from it's meta narrative, and that metanarrative includes countless spinoffs, adaptations, and most importantly, merchandising opportunities. I think that Shave Impact is canon and that's a wild thing to say. I also need to include the seminal work of YouTube Eva Journalism - [Can You Live Entirely Off of Evangelion Merchandise](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_0Qr9rztRw4)? And spoiler alert, yeah, pretty much. Next up we have [All 37 Evangelion Timelines Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ueUeMFbGq9o), a video attempting to document the breadth of Eva spinoffs, canon, and retelling. This predates the final Eva rebuild film and I think is even better in the context of it.

APPENDIX B: PLAY RESOURCES
--------------------------