
Malice IV Legions Imperialis Tournament
Mar 1

There is a small but dedicated Legions Imperialis community in the Washington, DC area. In addition to events at some larger cons there is an ongoing series of events called Malice. I attended the last one held in 2025 and had a great time. For this event I wanted to get a Space Marine army ready and painted. 
Event Packet

The event had a lot of things to consider for your list. There were some explicit changes to list construction:

    A limit of 8 wounds of flyer models, that is - 4 Marauder Bombers, or 8 Xiphon Interceptors, or some combination of other flyers

    2300 points, max 16 activation (attached HQ choices don’t count as an activation, dedicated transports add 1 activation to the unit they’re attached to)

I think these are good changes and don’t have a ton to say about them. Marauders are OP, and overloading your opponents with activations is very powerful while also slowing the game down. 

There is a special rule for all missions that also impacts things:

    Deadly Fog of War from Devastation of Tallarn - in short this causes infantry outside of undamaged buildings or transports, or wounded multi-wound models to take a save at end of turn or suffer a wound. This is brutal! You get +1 to the save but it really means that infantry need to stay inside something. I’ll note here this also makes dealing 1 wound to a structure very relevant where normally it doesn’t do much.

And then another special rule is being used for the first two of the three games:

    Staggered Arrival - On turn one you only deploy a single detachment. Your others arrive on turn 2. No objective scoring on turn 1. Infiltrators must arrive on turn 1 to use that rule.

Now this is interesting. It really rewards certain things, and hurts others. Let’s break some of this down:

    If you’re going to infiltrate you need to put that detachment down first, this is typically going to be Solar Auxilia Pioneer Companies, Alpha Legion, and Raven Guard.

    You don’t need to hold objectives on turn 1.

    For turn 1 activation counts may vary a lot. The list activation cap is 16 but on turn 1 it depends on your starting detachment.

    Points may be mismatched on turn 1, again this depends on the starting detachment. This won’t mean much if it’s two short range detachments but if you can bring a detachment that can interact with the opponent on turn 1 you may be able to deal a lot of damage.

    On turn 1 players will likely lack flexibility, one detachment rarely covers all your bases.

    Units with deep strike arriving from turn 2 are even better than usual, as they’re not missing much turn 1.

    Units arriving on turn 2 need some speed, you don’t want footslogging dreadnoughts on your board edge on turn 2.

Lastly, let’s talk missions. The first one, Forward Push is pretty typical, hold objectives, get more points the further they are from your deployment zone. However the next two are entirely based on kill points. This is unusual in LI and worth noting. Infantry typically dominate in this game because of their objective holding power. However here we’re seeing a mission packet where 2/3rds of the time that won’t matter.

This means that infantry are far less important than they’d typically be. This was intentional on the event organizer’s part, but certainly something to take into account. We’re looking to kill shit, holding ground is secondary.

One final small note, ally cap was set to 750 rather than the 690 it would be rules as written. I like this change, feels like a rounder number and having a few more allied points is fun.
List Building

I can up with a few general ideas. 

    I started with a space marine list heavy on super heavies that had some Saturnine Terminators deeps striking on turn 2. But outside of the first mission I don’t actually care about that. 

    I then considered a points-denial list, this would have been very few activations (8) but all my units would be very hard to kill. I kinda think this would have been unbeatable in missions 2 & 3, while struggling in the first. I decided to skip it for this reason, I’m looking to take a good list, but I want my opponents to enjoy the game. 

    Next I considered a list heavy on Solar Auxila with marines supporting. This allowed me to take 4 Marauders which would be very good. I decided against this for two reasons, first taking the obvious OP unit is a little boring. Second, I did really want to bring a space marine list, and not just as allies. 

    I briefly considered bringing a titan list, I think it will be very strong for this event packet and very, very hard to beat in games 2/3. But I didn’t really feel like painting titans and I don’t have a good set up titans painted to run a primary detachment of them.

So, what did I settle on?

Malice IV: Blood Angels
2300 Points | 3 Formations | 31 models | 16 activations

Legion Armoured Company (Blood Angels) 1195pts
Formation Strength: 17 | Break Point: 9 | Activations: 7

1 Legion Sicaran Commander  70pts (Punisher, heavy bolters)
2 Legion Sicaran Punisher 90pts (Heavy bolters)
3 Legion Sicaran Arcus 140pts (Lascannons)
3 Legion Sicaran Arcus 140pts (Lascannons)
2 Legion Sicaran Arcus 95pts (Lascannons)
3 Legion Fellblade 340pts (Lascannons)
2 Legion Cerberus 165pts (Lascannons)
1 Legion Typhon 80pts (Heavy bolters)

Legion Super-heavy Spearhead (Blood Angels) 355pts
Formation Strength: 5 | Break Point: 3 | Activations: 4

2 Legion Typhon 155pts (Heavy bolters)
1 Legion Typhon 80pts (Heavy bolters)
1 Legion Glaive 110pts (Laser destroyers)
1 Legion Cerberus 85pts (Lascannons)

Solar Auxilia Armoured Company (Blood Angels) 750pts
Formation Strength: 9 | Break Point: 5 | Activations: 5

Tank Commander 10pts
3 Auxilia Stormhammer Squadron 280pts (Multi-lasers)
3 Auxilia Stormhammer Squadron 280pts (Multi-lasers)
1 Auxilia Malcador Infernus Squadron 60pts (Autocannons)
1 Auxilia Malcador Infernus Squadron 60pts (Autocannons)
1 Auxilia Malcador Infernus Squadron 60pts (Autocannons)

Let’s break down what this is looking to do. First off we’ve got the primary detachment, this is going down turn one in the first two missions and it’s got a lot of stuff. It has over half my list’s points so I should have a firepower advantage turn one. It also has a lot of range with the Typhons and Punisher Sicarns being the only things without 20+ inches of range. My hope on turn one is that I have a chance to really lay into my opponent’s first detachment. If they hide in the back field I can then use turn 1 to establish board control.

My final tweak to the list was to move the 2-Typhon squadron from the Armoured Company to the Super Heavy company. Getting all my formations to odd numbers of models is great when model counts are so low.

Sicaran Punishers - These are taken partly to give the HQ slot something to do, but also to give me some mobile problem solvers for infantry. My list is very focused on taking on tanks and buildings, so having some more options should infantry (or walkers) show up is something I wanted.

Sicaran Arcus - These are included for their long range, and Skyfire profile. If my opponent has planes these should be good enough to take them down, if not they’re sniping at enemy tanks or walkers.

Fellblade - I think the Fellblade is… fine, not great, not bad. It does have a ton of dice, and we’re taking it here partly to help overload this detachment with points. I think Glaves are generally better but are harder to use in large squadrons thanks to Beam.

Cerberus - The best shock-pulse unit in the game, and also just good anti-tank damage. I think 3 is a little overkill but we’ve gotta fit everything in.

Typhon - Infantry need to stay in buildings in this event. I want to make that impossible. The toxic fog in this event makes single Typhons much more effective than normal. Putting one wound on a building makes it pretty unappealing to occupy, and my plan will be on turn 1 to shoot a building, regardless of it’s occupancy. 

Glaive - This ended up getting added to make points work but it’s a good tank and having one gives me some flexibility.

Stormhammer - This gets my nod as best super heavy in the game. The number of dice this throws out (12 per model) is crazy and they’re pretty good shots on average. For activation and formation reasons they need to be in squadrons so I will see some stormhammers run away at some point, though one detachment gets 3+ moral from Tank Commander.

Malcador Infernus - These are the other core of my anti-infantry tactics. Able to torch infantry in buildings and clean up squads that are not these will be important in the first mission. In missions 2 & 3 I’ll try and be careful with these as they’re the easiest to kill detachments in my list. I’ll hide them toward the back unless I need them to clear out a building the Typhons can’t deal with.

It might go without saying but one huge edge this list has is that any weapon with “Light” in its traits does nothing versus me. And with 12/16 detachments rocking a 2+ Light AT is also looking pretty suspect.

I worry a little that it’s getting too close to Win At All Costs for Legions Imperialis, but one thing comforting me there is I expect the Blood Angels legion trait to be relevant 0 times this event so that’s something of a handicap. Given the choice of traits I think Alpha Legion, Salimanders, Iron Hands, and Ultramarines would all be worth considering. For this list there are a good number of legion traits that could never happen. Blood Angels are technically better than those but I really don’t want my tanks in combat here.