

So this post is prompted by finally getting my hands on some Tarantulas for the Horus Heresy and looking at the Goonhammer article on them. Now I want to start off by saying that I love what Goonhammer does for the community. It has really been a huge in bringing back some high profile, well done text based content for wargames. Likewise I want to say that no slight is intended on the people who worked on that article, but seeing what was done to the models in that article prompted me to write this.
Tarantula sentry gun upside down with a series of tiny magnets

While building my own I did enjoy that the top can spin around, and I wanted to be able to do that, but this solution isn’t really a solution for that. It can’t spin much if the magnets want to be lined up. Furthermore, once I for the model in my hands it was extremely clear that this was just completely the wrong way to do it. It’s a lot of extra work for a worse result. Based on the image above I think Andrew at Goonhammer didn’t stop to consider 2-part epoxy/clay. Known to many wargamers as Green Stuff, I would not recommend Green Stuff for what I’m doing below, but it’s a viable option. It’s just expensive. What I would recommend is Apoxie Scuplt, or what I’m using now Epoxy Sculpt Clay from Seocam. In both cases you’ll get 2 tubs, when mixed together you get a very strong clay that hardens in a few hours. And it’s really useful for magnetizing. We’re going to improve on the above image using this.
Step One: Magnetize the Feet

We’re magnetizing the feet differently from the above photo to get a much stronger magnetic connection. Magnets are very strong when touching each other or metal, but any gap will dramatically reduce their hold. You don’t need strong magnets for minis, you just need flush surfaces. And this is easy with your 2-part epoxy.

    Follow assembly instructions up through step 6

    Mix a small amount of epoxy, less than you think you’ll need

    Put a drop of super glue in each foot-hole

    Put a tiny pinch of epoxy in each foot-hole

    Put another drop of super glue on the epoxy

    Put a 3x1mm magnet on the epoxy, you want the magnet poking out a little above the surface of the foot for the next stem

    After completing all four feet get a flat surface (cutting mat works great) and push the assembly flat against it. You want the magnets to squish the epoxy into the hole and become flush with the bottom of the assembly

Step Two: Magnetizing the Turret

This is what really prompted the tutorial, I want my turret to spin and that’s remarkably easy to set up but does require a filler, hence the 2-part epoxy.

    Take the legs from step 6 and the turret from step 1. Place the turret upside down and the legs right-side up.

    Mix a small amount of epoxy, less than you think you’ll need

    Put a small drop of super glue in the center of the turret and legs

    Put a small pinch of epoxy on top

    Put another drop of super glue on the epoxy

    Put a 5x1mm magnet on the epoxy in the legs

    Put a second 5x1mm magnet on top of it, so they’re touch/connected

    Test fit: carefully place the turret on the model but don’t push and quickly lift it off
    You’re looking to ensure that the epoxy blob on top will touch the magnet, a bit of the super glue on it should have come off. You want to have enough epoxy that you need to press down a little, but not too much. If there is not enough epoxy add some (and new super glue on top), if there is too much you’ll need to take some out or just smush it more widely into the base.

    Once you’re confident in the amount of epoxy place the turret on the base and press it down

    Let it sit overnight to cure, in the morning you should be able to rotate and lift off the turret without issue.